# Code examples for the Season 1: Building a Regex Engine 

This package contains multiple iterations of the regex engine built during season one. These have the code exactly as it was displayed in the blog posts. In [another
project I made the full regex engine]((https://github.com/DanielBV/RegexEngine/)) and a [web to visualize the NFA](https://danielbv.github.io/RegexEngine/). The main difference
is that the code here should be a bit cleanear, since I improved while I was writing the posts.

## Folder structure
* `grammar`: Contains the parser. It's common to every iteration (though not all iterations allow all the syntax)
* `formal-regex-engine`: First iteration of the engine. Only allows formal regex syntax. The code is from the first three posts of the season.
* `capturing-groups`: Second iteration. Allows formal regex syntax extended to allow capturing groups, named capturing groups and non capturing groups.
Each iteration has a README with more details about its files.

## Installation
```
npm install
``` 

The engine uses an antlr4 grammar. To make things simple I added the autogenerated code to the repository, but you can regenerate it with:
```
npm run grammar
```
**You don't have to regenerate the grammar**. If for some reason you want to, you'll need to have antlr4.8 installed. The reason to use 4.8 and not 4.9 is because 
in 4.9 antlr4 generates ES6 code. I tried to transpile it generated an exception and was giving me a headache. 

## Running the engine
Each iteration has a `index.js` file that runs some test cases and prints them in the console. For example:
```
node .\formal-regex-engine\index.js
```
